Feat/docs, switching to readthedocs (#79)
rinikerlab/lightweight-registration: docs/source/gettingstarted.rst

Quick Start
===========

.. _GetStarted:

What is a registration system?
------------------------------

> A chemical registration system is a software system (e.g. database) which holds chemical structures and assigns them identifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A chemical registration system is a software system (e.g. database) that holds chemical structures and assigns them identifiers.
```

The identifiers can be used as keys when storing additional data about the chemical structures in additional tables.

lwreg's Basic Functionality
---------------------------
There are four basic operations provides by the lwreg package that can either by called via the Python API or the command line interface:

.. list-table:: Basic operations
   :widths: 10 30
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Operation
     - Description
   * - initdb
     - Initialize a new database. **Warning**: This will delete all existing data in the database.
   * - register
     - Register a new compound, returns a unique identifier (molregno) upon success.
   * - query
     - Query the database if a compound is already registered.
       If so, returns the respective molregno(s) matching the search.
   * - retrieve
     - Get the resgisted structure(s) for one or multiple given identifier(s). Ids in the retrieve list that do not exist do not show up in the results.

See the :ref:`Basic Functionality Reference` for more details and :ref:`Additional Functionality Reference` for advanced features.

Installation Guide
------------------

> The following outline assumes that the user has conda (or an equivalent) installed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following outline assumes that the user has conda installed. 
```

.. code-block:: bash

>     conda env create --name py311_lwreg --file=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rinikerlab/lightweight-registration/main/environment.yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    conda env create --name py313_lwreg --file=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rinikerlab/lightweight-registration/main/environment.yml
```

>     conda activate py311_lwreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    conda activate py313_lwreg
```

    python -m pip install git+https://github.com/rinikerlab/lightweight-registration

To verify the installation by running

.. code-block:: bash

    lwreg --help

When starting to use lwreg, you also must choose your prefered database management system. 

> The two systems compatible with lwreg are SQLite and PostgreSQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two systems currently supported by lwreg are SQLite and PostgreSQL.
```

SQLite is a serverless database system that stores the database in a single file and which is supported as part of the Python standard library.

> If you choose to use PostgreSQL, you need to install the psycopg2 package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose to use PostgreSQL, you need to install the psycopg package:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    conda install -c conda-forge psycopg2

You will also need to have the PostgreSQL server installed and running.
Please refer to the `PostgreSQL documentation <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/>`_ for installation instructions. Quick setup instructions, suitable for experimentation but not serious work, can be found in an `RDKit blog post <https://greglandrum.github.io/rdkit-blog/posts/2024-10-31-lwreg-and-the-cartridge.html>`_.

Configuration
-------------

> If you plan to use the command line interface to lwreg, you need to set up a configuration file before you get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to use the command-line interface to lwreg, you need to set up a configuration file before you get started.
```

> The configuration file is a YAML file that contains the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration file is a JSON file that contains the following information:
```

Reviewer: If you're going to mention this here, then I would include an actual example so that it's clear what you mean and what the file should look like
